{:title "Recap From Clojure Conj 2016"
 :date "2016-12-6"
 :layout :post
 :toc false}
 
 This is the beginning of my recap from Clojure Conj 2016
 
 This first post will only include what I can remember off the top of my head. It's interesting to see what left such an impression on me that I remember it days later.
 
 In future posts I'll be digging into my notes
 
 For now, lets just dig into what I have in RAM...
 
## Tools Presented
 
* Sayid - debugging tool  
* Barliman - code generation IDE
* Proto-repl - visual repl bulit on top of Atom
* Spectrum - static typing for clojure.spec
 
## Techniques Presented
 
* Omnicient Debugging
* REPL Visualization
* Simplifying ETL
* Creating Composable Abstractions
 
 
## Highlights
 
* pre-conference Datomic Training
* The Complete Evisceration of the SemVer system
* Hallway talks with some great Clojurists


This year Clojure.spec was a major feature in a lot talks. So much so that at times I wondered why it wasn't used more. 

Datomic also beat out all other databases for the 4th straight year in a row

## Calls to Action

* grow your software
* be nice to each other (don't break your public api)
* mentor
* consider helping university research departments
* spec your codebase

## Side notes
I drove back and forth from San Antonio to Austin every day which I didn't realize was going to be so exhausting. Looking back I'm wandering how delirious I must have seemed during the hallway talks. 

I took a lot of notes at the conference so I'll be trying to dig into those and seeing if I can make any sense out of them. If you remember seeing someone in the front row frantically jotting down notes in a notebook, that was me.

